Simplify documentation of datamodels and usage of plugins (#977)
SINTEF/dlite: doc/user_guide/datamodels.md

Representing a datamodel (entity)
----------------------------------

> The (concepts)[concepts.md] describes the underlying structure of DLite datamodels.

Reviewer: `[concepts](concepts.md)` will create a link to `concepts.md`, but this file does not exists in the folder of the generated html documentation. Better to add a static link by writing `[concepts]` here and add the link

    [concepts]: https://sintef.github.io/dlite/user_guide/concepts.html

to the end of the document.

```suggestion
The [concepts] describes the underlying structure of DLite datamodels.
```

Here, at set of rules on how to create a datamodel is presented.

Note that several other possibilities are avilable, and this can be seen in the
examples and tests present in the repository. 

We choose here to present only one method as mixing repsentation methods might 
be confusing. Note, however that yaml and json representations are interchangable.

A generic example with some comments for clarity can be seen below.

> ```yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```yaml
```

uri: http://namespace/version/name

> description: This describes how to make a yaml representation of a datamodel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A description of what this datamodel represents.
```

> dimensions: # Simplest to represent as a dict, set to {} if no dimensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dimensions:  # Named dimensions referred to in the property shapes. Simplest to represent it as a dict, set to {} if there are no dimensions
```

  name_of_dimension: description of dimension
properties:
  name_of_property1:
    description: What is this property

>     type: ref # Can be any on string, float, double, int, ref ....

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    type: type # Can be any on string, float, double, int, ref ....
```

    unit: unit # can be ommitted, not relevant with type ref

>     shape: [name_of_dimension] # ommit if shape is 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    shape: [name_of_dimension]  # Can be omitted if the property is a scalar
```

    $ref:  http://namespace/version/name_of_referenceddatamodel # only if type is ref
```

A slightly more realistic example is the "Person" entity, where we want to describe his/her name, age and skills.

```yaml
uri: http://onto-ns.com/meta/0.1/Person
description: A person.
dimensions: 
  N: Number of skills.
properties:
  name:
    description: Full name.
    type: string
  age:
    description: Age of person.
    type: float
    unit: years
  skills:
    description: List of skills.
    type: string
    shape: [N]
```

> First we have "uri" identifying the entity, and a human description.

Reviewer: Suggest to use backticks (`) for keywords. They gives better highlighting in the rendered text.

If you accept this suggestion, you should also replace the quotes below with backticks.

```suggestion
First we have `uri` identifying the entity, and a human description.
```

> Then comes "dimensions".In this case one dimension named "N", which is the number of skills the person has.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then comes `description`, which
"dimensions".In this case one dimension named "N", which is the number of skills the person has.
```

> First we have "uri" identifying the entity, and a human description.
> Then comes "dimensions".In this case one dimension named "N", which is the number of skills the person has.
> Finally we have the properties; "name", "age" and "skills".
> We see that "name" is represented as a string, "age" as a floating point number with unit years and "skills" as an array of strings, one for each skill.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The keywords has the following meaning:
* `uri`: An URI that uniquely identifies the datamodel.
* `description`: A human description that describes what this datamodel represents.
* `dimensions`: Dimensions that are common to all properties (and referred to by the property shape). Each dimension is described by:
  - name of the dimension 
  - a human description of the dimension 
  In the above example there is one dimension with name "N" and description "Number of skills."
* `properties`: Sub-parts of the datamodel that describes the individual data fields. A property has a name and is further is specified by the following keywords:
  - `description`: Human description of the property.
  - `type`: Data type of the property. Ex: "blob5", "boolean", "uint", "int32", "string", "string10", "ref", ...
  - `ref`: URI of a sub-datamodel. Only used if type is "ref".
  - `unit`: Optional. The unit. Ex: "kg", "km/h", ... Can be omitted if the property is dimensionless.
  - `shape`: Optional. Describe the dimensionality of the property as a list of dimension names. Ex: `[N]`. Can be omitted if the property is scalar.
  The datamodel above has three properties; "name", "age" and "skills". We see that "name" is represented as a string, "age" as a floating point number with unit years and "skills" as an array of strings, one for each skill.
```

dlite-validate
==============
The dlite-validate tool can be used to check if a specific representation (in a file) is a valid DLite datamodel

This can be run as follows
```bash
dlite-validate filename.yaml # or json
```

> It will then return a list of errors if it is not a valid representation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will then return a list of errors if it is not a valid representation.

[concepts]: https://sintef.github.io/dlite/user_guide/concepts.html
```

> It will then return a list of errors if it is not a valid representation.

Reviewer: I think this should be moved to `doc/user_guide/tools.md`. But it would be great with a note here saying that datamodels can be validated using the `dlite_validate` tool, with a reference to the correct section in `doc/user_guide/tools.md`.

Reviewer: Have you pushed the changes to `doc/user_guide/tools.md`?

Author: Not yet, waiting for you answer on teams.

Representing a datamodel (entity)
----------------------------------

The underlying structure of DLite datamodels are described under [concepts].

Here, at set of rules on how to create a datamodel is presented.

Note that several other possibilities are avilable, and this can be seen in the
examples and tests present in the repository. 

We choose here to present only one method as mixing repsentation methods might 
be confusing. Note, however that yaml and json representations are interchangable.

A generic example with some comments for clarity can be seen below.

```yaml
uri: http://namespace/version/name
description: A description of what this datamodel represents.
dimensions:  # Named dimensions referred to in the property shapes. Simplest to represent it as a dict, set to {} if there are no dimensions
  name_of_dimension: description of dimension
properties:
  name_of_property1:
    description: What is this property
    type: ref # Can be any on string, float, double, int, ref ....

>     unit: unit # can be ommitted, not relevant with type ref

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    unit: unit  # Can be ommitted if the property has no unit
```
